1.Constructor is used to initialisation of object

whenever we are creating a object, some piece of code will be executed automatically to perform initialisation of the object. This piece of the code is nothing but the constructor. Hence, the main purpose of constructor is to perform initialisation of the object.

2.New keyword is used to create the Object.

The main purpose of the constructor is initialization of an object but not to create object.

3. Instance Block is used for other than initialization ( Example :Updating database after every object creation, increace count value )

4. Both constructor and Instance block has their own differnet purposes and replacing one concept with another concept may not works always.

5. Both construcotr and instance block will be executed for every object cretion but instance block first followed by constructor next.

6. Rules of constructor

a.Name of the class and name of the constructor must be matched.
b. Return type concept is not applicable for constructor even Void also.
c.By mistake if we are trying to declare return type of constructor, then we won't get any compile time error becuase compiler treats it as a method.
d. It is legal to have to a method whose name is exactly same as class name  but it not recommended.


7. The only applicable modifer for constructor are

public, private, protected and default.

If we are trying to use any other modifier we will get compile time error.

8. if class does not contain any constructor then only compiler will generate construtor.

9. Compiler is responsible to generate default constructor but not JVM.

10. If we are not writing any constructor then only compiler will generate default constructor. i.e if we are writing at leats one constructor then compiler will not genrate default constructor. Hence, every class in Java can contain constructor it may be default constructor generated by compiler or customised construtor explicitly provided by programmer but not together.


11. The access modifier of default contructor is exactly same as access modifier of class. ( This rule is applicable only for public and default)

12. It contains only one line ( super();)
Note : It is no argument call to superclass contructor.

13. First line of any constructor either super() or this();

14. We can write any line of code under constructor but after super() method.

15. Super() and this () : we can use only in constructor.
b> Only in first line.
c> only one but not simultaneously


16. A class can contains any number of constructor.

17. Recursive method call is run time error i.e. stack flow error but if there is a chance of recursive constructor invocation in our program then code won't compile and we will get compile time error.

18. We can apply only 4 modifiers for constructor. ( Private-->default-->Protacted -->Public )

19. We can't apply few modifiers which are static, final.

20. Default contructor is generated by compiler not JVM.

21. if class does not contain any constructor then only compiler will create the deafult constructor.

22. Default constructor will always no argument construtor.

23. For constructor, inheritance and overrididng is not applicable.

24. Abstract class also conatin constructor.

25. Interface can't contain constructor.

26.if parent class contrutcor throws some checked exception then compulsary child class constructor throws same checked exception or it's parent exception.
